Carl McFarland stood beneath a motionless white canopy at

his father’s funeral, one arm around his wife’s waist.  The

western Nevada desert was hot and dry as a kiln--over forty

Celsius just past noon, and him in a black wool suit.  He put his

free hand in his pocket.  Beneath his wadded-up computer he found

the small, cold syringe that could end this whole charade.  Dead

clay fired in the sun, this tool could restore to life.

     Pastor Kittridge, his father’s assistant, read from a large

hardcopy Bible beside the open grave, in a voice that carried to

all the crowd:  “‘In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,

till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken:

for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.’”  Carl felt as if he were breathing hot dust, even in the

shade, but he didn’t sweat.  He probably needed water.  He

watched Pastor Kittridge, in the full glare of the sun, mop his

forehead with a flannel handkerchief.  It was summer solstice,

the longest day of the year.

     “Thus spake the Lord unto Adam, our first father,” said the

young pastor, his high, smooth brow clenched against the sun.  He

sounded less certain when he wasn’t quoting scripture.  “Thus he

speaks to us all--even to our dear friend Pastor McFarland, a man

so good we can only give thanks he wasn’t taken home sooner.”

     A high cloud veiled the sun, but Carl did not relax his

squint.  There was no man more well-loved in Sun Forge than his

father.  Pastor McFarland had been quick with a kind word, and

always had time to hear the smallest complaint or glad tiding.

He was a friend to everyone, not just his own congregation.  The

hundreds of people spilling down the cemetery lawn, rustling and

broiling in their black clothes, bore testimony to that.

     Of course, none of them had lived under the man’s roof, in

his zone of inattention.  But neither had Carl, not for twenty-

three years.

     His eyes began to sting.  He tried to clutch Eileen more

tightly to him, but Hillary stirred in her arms and Eileen pulled

away to rock the little girl.  Those six inches of separation

yawned like a chasm.

     The syringe in Carl’s pocket burned with cold promise.  He

blinked several times.  It would be so easy to bring the old man back to life.  Five steps across the cemetery lawn,
a snap of the

catch on the casket lid, a swift injection of nanosolution, and

his father would rise again.  Carl would lead him back to the

house on the ridge, and the two of them could sit down for a

companionable beer.  His father could meet Eileen and Hillary.

     But Carl’s legs refused to move.

     “. . . and thus we prepare to return the earthly remains of

our dear friend and counselor to the dust from whence they came,”

Kittridge was saying, “comforted by the knowledge that what we

loved in Ian McFarland, and what loved us so purely in return,

has not died but lives on, and will one day rise up to be greeted

by his Savior, and will live and walk again amongst us all.”

     Carl shook his head.  Whatever constituted his father was

locked inside that casket in an organ slowing decaying to jelly.

There was only one way it would ever live and walk again.

     He drew the syringe from his pocket.

     Eileen’s veil brushed his ear.  “Are you all right, Carl?”

she asked.  Hillary had snuggled back down into sleep.

     I’m forty years old, he thought.  I’ve barely spoken to my

father since high school.  I’ve never visited at all.  Why would

he ever want to see me?  With a sick sense of failing a test, he

slipped the syringe back into his pocket.

     “Ian McFarland,” said Kittridge, head bowed, “you will be

sorely missed.”  Almost too quietly for Carl to hear, he

repeated, “Sorely missed.”